## Programming - What Is It?

Programming is a thing I've been meaning to get into since 2012, my freshman
year of college. In addition to buying textbooks for my courses, I bought a few
introductory books on Python & Ruby. I never opened them.

I've never really been able to get into programming. The usual reason I give is
because I have never come across a problem that programming would be an
efficient solution for - most things I do, I only really do once. Writing an
entire program to accomplish that task seems like a waste of time. The only
exception thus far as been shell script.

But I've run into enough problems and reasons that make this lack of
knowledge... problematic for future development. At the very least, knowing how
to program in some valuable and important languages will make me more literate
in the things I do day-to-day, patching software and understanding how certain
programs operate.

## This Repository

This repository will act as a collection of notes, resources, tests, use-cases,
etc. For instance, the `c` directory is setup for those following the Bible on
ANSI C (K&R). You'll notice that README files include paths; if you're using
`vim`, you can use the `gf` binding to immediately checkout the referenced
file (optimally `<C-W>gf`, or `:bf` to go back -- congratulations, you're learning
`vim`!). The files are named `README` in this folder simply to make reading on
places such as GitHub easier; think of them as indices and notes.

In addition to directories for independent languages, there is a folder named
`exercism`. This folder will contain any languages I've used
[Exercism](https://exercism.org) to learn. I strongly encourage anyone
interested in programming to play around with it; it's sort of like the Duolingo
of programming. It's a good alternative to something like Coursera or learning
from YouTube videos, and could act as a nice supplement to textbooks! The
structure of the `exercism` directory is subject to change, but it should
continue to be roughly oriented as `exercism/{language}` for easy reference.

## So What?

Ultimately, this is just a reference for me. If you find it useful, feel free to
take it! Most everything in here will end up being code I myself have generated,
so if you have comments/questions/concerns feel free to email me or make an
issue. Theoretically you could submit a PR to add a new language, but that seems
like a waste of time.
